.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd Sept 11, 2015
.Dt TARFS 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tarfs
.Nd Tape archive file system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile support for the
.Nm ,
place the following in your kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "options TARFS"
.Ed
.Pp
Alternatively, to load the driver as a
module at boot time, place the following line in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
tarfs_load="YES"
.Ed
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver will permit the
.Fx
kernel to mount a tarball as a file system.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To mount a tarball:
.Pp
.Dl "mount -t tarfs /path/to/tarfile.tar /mnt"
.Pp
Alternatively, you can create a memory disk with the tarball as the backing
store and mount the memory disk using
.Nm :
.Pp
.Dl "mdconfig -t vnode -f /path/to/tarfile.tar"
.Dl "mount -t tarfs /dev/mdX /mnt"
.Pp
This is useful for handling uzip-compressed tarballs.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr mdconfig 8 ,
.Xr geom_uzip 8 ,
.Xr mkuzip 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The tape archive file system was written by
.An Stephen J. Kiernan .
